README.md, before:

# Hangman

Hangman is a classic game in which a player thinks of a word and the other player tries to guess that word within a certain amount of attempts.

This is an implementation of the Hangman game, where the computer thinks of a word and the user tries to guess it.

## Table of Contents

-  Description
-  Installation
-  Usage
-  License

## Description

This is a version of the Hangman game, where a user has to guess which fruit the computer has randomly selected from a list of 5 fruits. The user inputs a letter, and once confirming the input is valid and hasn't already been guessed, the game checks whether the letter is contained within the randomly selected word. If it is, the letter is recorded in each of the positions in the guessed word where it appears in the selected word. And if not, the user receives a message and is prompted to try again. Users have 5 lives, which reduce by 1 with each incorrect guess.

Development of the game started with defining the word list and using the choice method of Python's random module to select one at random. The user is asked for input which is validated to ensure the length = 1 and the input is alphabetical using the isalpha() method. Next, this was put inside a function, and another function was defined to check if the guess was in the word, having converted it to lower case. In the following stage, a class was defined and some attributes initialised: the randomly chosen word, the guessed word, the number of unique letters not yet guessed, how many lives remain, the list of possible words and the list of letters already guessed. The functions were moved inside the class and enhanced to update the guessed word with correctly guessed letters, and to adjust to the number of lives and the list of guessed letters.

## Installation

git clone https://github.com/karen-mckendry/hangman561

## Usage

Follow the on-screen instructions to guess letters and try to uncover the chosen word.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU GPLv3 License.

Commit message:

Updates milestone_5.py and README.md

README.md, after:

# Hangman

Hangman is a classic game in which a player thinks of a word and the other player tries to guess that word within a certain amount of attempts.

This is an implementation of the Hangman game, where the computer thinks of a word and the user tries to guess it.

## Table of Contents

-  Description
-  Installation
-  Usage
-  License

## Description

This is a version of the Hangman game, where a user has to guess which fruit the computer has randomly selected from a list of 5 fruits. The user inputs a letter, and once confirming the input is valid and hasn't already been guessed, the game checks whether the letter is contained within the randomly selected word. If it is, the letter is recorded in each of the positions in the guessed word where it appears in the selected word. And if not, the user receives a message and is prompted to try again. Users have 5 lives, which reduce by 1 with each incorrect guess.

Development of the game started with defining the word list and using the choice method of Python's random module to select one at random. The user is asked for input which is validated to ensure the length = 1 and the input is alphabetical using the isalpha() method. Next, this was put inside a function, and another function was defined to check if the guess was in the word, having converted it to lower case. In the following stage, a class was defined and some attributes initialised: the randomly chosen word, the guessed word, the number of unique letters not yet guessed, how many lives remain, the list of possible words and the list of letters already guessed. The functions were moved inside the class and enhanced to update the guessed word with correctly guessed letters, and to adjust to the number of lives and the list of guessed letters.

## Class and Methods

class Hangman:
This class creates the game, with the following methods:
&emsp;&emsp;def check_guess (guess):   
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;This method is used to check if the letter input by the user is in the randomly selected word.  
&emsp;&emsp;def ask_for_input():  
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;This method requests input of a letter from the user and validates it, then calls the check_guess function to check if it's in the word.  
  
def play_game(word_list):  
&emsp;This function creates a game of class Hangman and continues until the user guesses all letters, or their lives run out.    

## Installation

In your terminal input: `git clone https://github.com/karen-mckendry/hangman561`

To play the game input: `python milestone_5.py`

## Usage

Follow the on-screen instructions to guess letters and try to uncover the selected word.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU GPLv3 License.
